README.md, before:

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/84639970/226336865-730156f4-196f-4787-bb6b-2c5ecf09a123.mp4

# Run the Project

### Backend

- you have to enter the backend folder by typing `cd backend` in the terminal
- In the project directory,Install libraries by typing `yarn`
- Open a new file named .env

```environment
    MONGO_URI=mongodb+srv://user:passworrd@seyit.jwhpjae.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true&w=majority
    JWT_SECRET=sdgkMKEVlm3v23kl_n423vGG3b_TVnm234xnv23
    JWT_REFRESH_SECRET=rerv1jv15v1CVBnasd23jnv1j3123nvrqwr23
```

- and type your mongodb URI
- Then Run backend project with `yarn dev`

---

### Frontend

- you have to enter the frontend folder by typing `cd frontend` in the terminal
- In the project directory,Install libraries by typing `yarn`
- Then Run backend project with `yarn start`
- You can reach the project from [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)

---

# Libraries

### backend

- accesscontrol
- bcrypt
- boom
- cors
- dotenv
- express
- ioredis
- joi
- jsonwebtoken
- mongoose
- sucrase

### frontend

- @chakra-ui/react
- antd
- axios
- formik
- framer-motion
- moment
- react-dom
- react-image-gallery
- react-query
- react-router-dom
- react-scripts
- web-vitals
- yup

### database

- MongoDB

---

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).
"# diligentproject"

Commit message:

chore: redact secrets from README and add backend/.env.example

README.md, after:

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/84639970/226336865-730156f4-196f-4787-bb6b-2c5ecf09a123.mp4

# Run the Project

### Backend

- you have to enter the backend folder by typing `cd backend` in the terminal
- In the project directory,Install libraries by typing `yarn`
- Open a new file named .env

-```environment
-    # Create a file at `backend/.env` (this file is ignored by git) and add your secrets here.
-    # Example placeholders (DO NOT commit real secrets into the repo):
-    MONGO_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@<cluster>.mongodb.net/<dbname>?retryWrites=true&w=majority
-    JWT_SECRET=<your_jwt_secret_here>
-    JWT_REFRESH_SECRET=<your_jwt_refresh_secret_here>
-```

- Replace the placeholder values with your actual connection string and secrets. DO NOT commit that file to git.
- Then Run backend project with `yarn dev`

---

### Frontend

- you have to enter the frontend folder by typing `cd frontend` in the terminal
- In the project directory,Install libraries by typing `yarn`
- Then Run backend project with `yarn start`
- You can reach the project from [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)

---

# Libraries

### backend

- accesscontrol
- bcrypt
- boom
- cors
- dotenv
- express
- ioredis
- joi
- jsonwebtoken
- mongoose
- sucrase

### frontend

- @chakra-ui/react
- antd
- axios
- formik
- framer-motion
- moment
- react-dom
- react-image-gallery
- react-query
- react-router-dom
- react-scripts
- web-vitals
- yup

### database

- MongoDB

---

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).
"# diligentproject" 
"# diligentproject"
